.TH NODE 1 "2026-07-19" "node-js 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
node \- JavaScript on fusevm, a compiled JS runtime (bytecode VM + Cranelift JIT)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B node
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIFILE\fR] [\fIARGS\fR...]
.br
.B node
\fB\-e\fR \fISRC\fR [\fIARGS\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B node-js
lexes and parses JavaScript and lowers it to
.B fusevm
bytecode executed on a Cranelift JIT over a JsHost object heap.
There is no bespoke VM or JIT; execution and codegen live in fusevm.
Object, string, and array cells ride through the VM as handles into that heap.
.PP
With no
.B \-e
and no
.I FILE
argument,
.B node
reads a script from standard input and runs it.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-e \fISRC\fR, \-\-eval \fISRC\fR
Evaluate a one\-liner instead of a file.
.TP
.B \-\-dump\-tokens
Print the lexer token stream for
.I FILE
(one \fIline\fR and token per line) and exit, instead of running it.
.TP
.B \-\-dump\-ast
Print the parsed AST for
.I FILE
and exit, instead of running it.
.TP
.B \-\-disasm
Print a fusevm bytecode disassembly listing for
.I FILE
(the main chunk, every user function's chunk, and every try block) and exit,
instead of running it.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print help and exit.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I FILE
The
.I .js
script to run. Omit it to read from standard input, or when
.B \-e
is given.
.TP
.I ARGS
Trailing arguments passed through to the JavaScript program.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Exits 0 on success. On error, a terse
.RB \(dq node:\ <reason> \(dq
message is written to standard error and the exit status is 1.
.SH EXAMPLES
Evaluate a one\-liner:
.PP
.RS
.EX
node \-e 'console.log(1 + 1)'
.EE
.RE
.PP
Run a script file:
.PP
.RS
.EX
node app.js
.EE
.RE
.PP
Pipe a script over standard input:
.PP
.RS
.EX
echo 'console.log("hi")' | node
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
Project home: <https://github.com/MenkeTechnologies/node-js>
