.\" nodeall(1) — comprehensive all-in-one man page for node-js.
.\" Modeled after zshall(1): every section of the reference in one document.
.\" Render with:  man -l man/nodeall.1
.\" Install:      cp man/nodeall.1 /usr/local/share/man/man1/
.TH NODEALL 1 "2026-07-23" "node-js 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nodeall \- the node-js comprehensive reference (invocation, language, architecture,
bytecode VM + Cranelift JIT, LSP, DAP, inline-Rust FFI)
.SH OVERVIEW
This is the all\-in\-one
.B node-js
manual, modeled on
.BR zshall (1).
It concatenates the major sections of the node-js reference into a single page so
you can grep with `/`:
.RS 2
.PP
.B 1.  INVOCATION
.RB "\(em " "flags, files, exit status"
.br
.B 2.  LANGUAGE
.RB "\(em " "the JavaScript the runtime parses and runs"
.br
.B 3.  ARCHITECTURE
.RB "\(em " "lex \[->] parse \[->] lower \[->] fusevm VM + JIT"
.br
.B 4.  TOOLING
.RB "\(em " "\-\-lsp, \-\-dap, inline-Rust FFI, dumps"
.br
.B 5.  DIAGNOSTICS
.RB "\(em " "error format and common messages"
.RE
.SH 1. INVOCATION
.B node
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFILE\fR [\fIARGS\fR...] runs a JavaScript file.
.B \-e \fISRC\fR / \-\-eval
evaluates a one\-liner instead of a file; with no
.B \-e
and no
.IR FILE ,
.B node
reads a script from standard input.
.B \-\-lsp
and
.B \-\-dap
speak their protocols over stdio and take no file. See
.BR node (1)
for the per\-flag table.
.SH 2. LANGUAGE
node-js runs JavaScript as ordinary compiled bytecode. It lexes and parses the
source, lowers it to
.B fusevm
instructions, and lets the shared engine execute and JIT\-compile them. Arithmetic
and comparisons lower to native fusevm ops; JavaScript object semantics are served
by the
.B JsHost
object heap \(em object, string, and array cells ride through the VM as handles into
that heap.
.SH 3. ARCHITECTURE
.EX
JavaScript source \[->] lexer \[->] parser (AST) \[->] lower to fusevm bytecode \[->] fusevm VM + Cranelift JIT
.EE
.PP
There is no bespoke VM or JIT; execution and codegen live in fusevm, the shared
engine behind zshrs, stryke, awkrs, elisp, ruby, arb, pythonrs, and php.
.SH 4. TOOLING
.SS Language server (\-\-lsp)
.B node \-\-lsp
speaks LSP over stdio: completion and hover from the symbol corpus (the same table
that generates
.IR docs/reference.html ),
and diagnostics from the runtime's own parser. It is read\-only; no output reaches
the terminal.
.SS Debugger (\-\-dap)
.B node \-\-dap
speaks the Debug Adapter Protocol over stdio: line breakpoints, single\-stepping,
a stack trace, and inspection of a frame's locals. Program output is captured and
forwarded as
.B output
events so it never corrupts the protocol channel.
.SS Inline-Rust FFI
A
.B rust { pub extern "C" fn \[u2026] }
block desugars to an internal
.BR __rust_compile ,
compiles to a cached
.B cdylib
on first run (via the shared
.B fusevm
FFI runtime), and its exports become callable by name from JavaScript
.RB ( src/rust_ffi.rs ).
.SS Dumps
.B \-\-dump\-tokens
prints the token stream,
.B \-\-dump\-ast
the parsed AST, and
.B \-\-disasm
a fusevm bytecode disassembly \(em each then exits.
.SH 5. DIAGNOSTICS
Errors are written to standard error. The process exits non\-zero on an unhandled
error and 0 on success.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR node (1)
The focused invocation page. Source and issue tracker:
https://github.com/MenkeTechnologies/node-js
.SH AUTHOR
Part of the fusevm language family.
